ATA 28
The vent system prevents pressure differences between the tanks and ambient air.
The engine fuel feed system uses fuel boost (variable frequency) pumps and override/jettison (OJ) pumps to make fuel pressure for the engines.
The O/J pumps reside in the center tank.
The O/J pump pressure overrides the fuel boost pump pressure. This makes sure that the center tank fuel is used first.
On APU battery start, the DC pump runs automatically.
The fuel density sensors (FDS) measure the fuel density by sensing the resonant frequency of the fuel.

List 4 places you can see fuel quantity data? 
EICAS, fuel synoptic page, fuel maintenance data page, refueling control panel.

What is the difference between the fuel tank access panels on the inboard side of the engine strut and the access panels on the outboard side? 
The inboard are high impact panels to prevent runway debris damage

Which condition can cause a fuel pump not to operate even if it is selected to operate from P5 fuel pump? 
Load shedding, low pressure and or high temperature. 

What is used to pressurize the fuel flow to the APU during battery start? 
A DC pump is used for starting with battery

How many fuel tanks are there, what are they called? 
Left, Centre, Right 

What are the capacities of the fuel Tanks? 
Wing tanks each - 21,000L
Centre tank - 84,000L

What does an open Pressure Relief VLV Indicate? 
Blocked Vent Scoop or Flame Arrester

Where are the Water Scavenge Jet Pumps located? There is one in each Wing Tank and feed Aft Main Pumps only

What is the purpose of the (2) Fuel Scavenge Isolation Valves? 
Allow Motive Flow to Centre tank Jet Pumps which pulls fuel from Centre tank to supply Wing Tanks

Where are the Fuel Tanks vented? 
Surge Tanks

Where does the fuel system vent overboard on the 787? 
At the bottom of the surge tank outboard end of the wing

Why are Fuel Tanks Vented? 
Used to equalize pressure between inside and outside of the tank. This prevents tanks collapsing

What is the purpose of the venting system? 
Prevents high pressure differences with outside air

Which Tank can be fuelled on Battery power only? 
Left Main Tank only.

Which tank can be fuelled with only battery power applied to the airplane? 
Left tank

Which Fuel Tank is used first during engine operation? 
Centre

There is fuel in all 3 tanks. During usual operations, which tank is used first? How is it done? 
The centre tank as the centre pumps (override/jettison) have a higher rating of output pressure.

How is APU started with no GRD power available? 
APU start switch starts operation of 28V DC fuel pump for APU start.

What is the purpose of the Fuel Density Sensors? 
To Calculate Fuel Weight 

What is the fuel density sensor used for? 
Measure the resonant frequency of the fuel to calculate the fuel weight.

How many FQDC’s per tank? 
One per tank, each has Two Channels

Each fuel tank, how many channel inputs from the fuel quantity data concentrator is used for fuel quantity indication?
2
