28_47_33_38_25_49_51-57_30
ATA 28
The vent system prevents pressure differences between the tanks and ambient air.
The engine fuel feed system uses fuel boost (variable frequency) pumps and override/jettison (OJ) pumps to make fuel pressure for the engines.
The O/J pumps reside in the center tank.
The O/J pump pressure overrides the fuel boost pump pressure. This makes sure that the center tank fuel is used first.
On APU battery start, the DC pump runs automatically.
The fuel density sensors (FDS) measure the fuel density by sensing the resonant frequency of the fuel.

List 4 places you can see fuel quantity data? 
EICAS, fuel synoptic page, fuel maintenance data page, refueling control panel.

What is the difference between the fuel tank access panels on the inboard side of the engine strut and the access panels on the outboard side? 
The inboard are high impact panels to prevent runway debris damage

Which condition can cause a fuel pump not to operate even if it is selected to operate from P5 fuel pump? 
Load shedding, low pressure and or high temperature. 

What is used to pressurize the fuel flow to the APU during battery start? 
A DC pump is used for starting with battery

How many fuel tanks are there, what are they called? 
Left, Centre, Right 

What are the capacities of the fuel Tanks? 
Wing tanks each - 21,000L
Centre tank - 84,000L

What does an open Pressure Relief VLV Indicate? 
Blocked Vent Scoop or Flame Arrester

Where are the Water Scavenge Jet Pumps located? There is one in each Wing Tank and feed Aft Main Pumps only

What is the purpose of the (2) Fuel Scavenge Isolation Valves? 
Allow Motive Flow to Centre tank Jet Pumps which pulls fuel from Centre tank to supply Wing Tanks

Where are the Fuel Tanks vented? 
Surge Tanks

Where does the fuel system vent overboard on the 787? 
At the bottom of the surge tank outboard end of the wing

Why are Fuel Tanks Vented? 
Used to equalize pressure between inside and outside of the tank. This prevents tanks collapsing

What is the purpose of the venting system? 
Prevents high pressure differences with outside air

Which Tank can be fuelled on Battery power only? 
Left Main Tank only.

Which tank can be fuelled with only battery power applied to the airplane? 
Left tank

Which Fuel Tank is used first during engine operation? 
Centre

There is fuel in all 3 tanks. During usual operations, which tank is used first? How is it done? 
The centre tank as the centre pumps (override/jettison) have a higher rating of output pressure.

How is APU started with no GRD power available? 
APU start switch starts operation of 28V DC fuel pump for APU start.

What is the purpose of the Fuel Density Sensors? 
To Calculate Fuel Weight 

What is the fuel density sensor used for? 
Measure the resonant frequency of the fuel to calculate the fuel weight.

How many FQDC’s per tank? 
One per tank, each has Two Channels

Each fuel tank, how many channel inputs from the fuel quantity data concentrator is used for fuel quantity indication?
2


ATA 47
The air separation module (ASM) separates oxygen from the nitrogen generation system (NGS) 
compressed air to make the nitrogen enriched air (NEA) and oxygen enriched air (OEA).

The ground operation of the nitrogen generation system (NGS) is through the SPECIAL FUNCTIONS 
menu of the central maintenance computing function (CMCF).

How does the NGS decrease the oxygen content of the air in the fuel tank? 
Separates the oxygen from the air through air separator module.

What are the three main parts of the NGS? 
Motor Driven Compressor / Heat Exchanger / Air Separation Module

How do maintenance personnel operate the NGS (Nitrogen Generation System) on the ground?
CMCF, Special Function

What controls the NGS system operation? 
one copy of the NGS hosted software application located in GPM4 in the CCR.


ATA 33
If airplane power fails, lights can automatically get power from batteries.
    • The batteries are in wireless emergency lighting system (WELS) control units (WCU).

The four prime units (Wireless Control Unit Prime x4)
    • Control the emergency lights that they connect to
    • Receive health status data from the remote units through a wireless connection.

Identify Nose Landing Gear mount lights.
4 (Four) - 2 Landing, 2 Taxi

The lights in the forward cargo compartment are controlled by two switches:
    • Outside (on the P43 panel)
    • Inside (near the forward cargo door).

Passenger cabin Emergency Light are controlled by Which unit? 
Prime (type of Wireless Control Unit (WCU))

The WCUs give battery power and control to the emergency lights and signs.

Emergency light status and LED control is provided which unit? 
Remote Units (type of WCU)


ATA 38
The vacuum blower motor operates on 235v ac, 3 phase, 360-800 Hz.

Typical Vacuum Blower Motor operates using what voltage? 235V AC

What is the purpose of UV UltraViolet in Line Treatment? 
Reduces or eliminates Bacterial growth in potable water system.

Where is the Mode select-quantity indication module located? 
Potable water service panel.


ATA 25
The indicator arrow on the top surface of the forward lug bolt align with the RED indicator dot when the lug bolt is unlocked.

Passenger seat securing on the seat track - Indicator arrow on the top surface of the forward
lug bolt align with the RED indicator dot when the lug bolt is unlocked.

What is meant by emergency decent device? 
Flight deck crew escape inertia reel.

What is meant if the seat track fitting position indicator is showing red?
Seat is unlocked

Where is the flight attendant rest located in cabin? 
AFT CABIN OVERHEAD

Identify the 3 switch positions located on the evacuation command switch? 
On / ARM / Off


ATA 49
THE DE-PRIME VALVE OPENS DURING START AND SHUTDOWN TO DECREASE THE LOAD ON THE APU STARTER GENERATOR (ASG)

When the oil is cold, it is very thick. This increases the energy necessary to 
turn the APU during start. The APU oil pump de-prime valve opens to keep oil 
from the oil pump. The oil goes back to the oil pump inlet. The de-prime 
valve also opens during the APU shutdown. This helps the oil go back to the sump.

APU BATTERY & PMG
The fuel module gets electrical power from the APU hot battery bus during APU start. 
The fuel module gets electrical power from the permanent magnetic generator (PMG) after the APU starts.

The is no cool down period when the APU is shut down by the APU fire shutdown switch on the P40 panel

CAUTION - Do not remove the APUC and the inlet sensor module at the same time.
IF YOU REMOVE THE APUC AND INLET SENSOR MODULE AT THE SAME TIME, THE MAINTENANCE DATA IS LOST.

If the APU is running in the unattended mode and low oil pressure, high oil temp.
or high EGT condition is detected the APU does a protective shutdown. 
The EICAS caution message, APU LIMIT to show. 

Is it possible to pressurize the airplane with bleed air from the APU?
No, No load compressor 

What does the APU do? It supplies only electrical power for ground and air. 

What is the purpose of the APU inlet door switch? 
Inlet door position indication. 

What electrical system component selects the electrical power source during an APU start? 
Electrical power system’s BPCU. 

Why is it not possible to replace the APU lubrication and scavenge pumps? 
They are not LRU, they're part of the gearbox 

What is the purpose of the de-prime valve? 
Opens during cold start to allow air to go to the supply pump and opens at shut down to return oil to the gearbox area.

What controls the speed of the APU? 
The APUC through the dc motor driven in the fuel module

What supplies power to the fuel module during APU starting and running? The APUC until 60%

When does the APU shutdown from the P40 panel,? 
Immediately 

The APU operates in the attended mode when the airplane is:
in the air or on the ground with at least one engine running. 

It is not recommended that you replace the APU controller (APUC) while you replace the:
Inlet sensor module 

The APU is operating in the attended mode. APU low oil pressure or high EGT condition is detected. 
What are the indications? What do you do? 
EICAS message shows APU LIMITS and must be shut down manually.


ATA 51-57
The 787 has carbon and fiberglass components.
- Carbon fiber composites are often called carbon fiber reinforced plastic (CFRP).


ATA 30
The Slat heater mats get 235v ac from P100, P200, and the P150 power panels
through the wing ice protection control unit (WIPCU) and it gets power from the RPDU 

Wing ice protection controller receives its control power from what unit? 
Remote power distribution unit (RPDU)

WECU controls logic and power supply to the wiper motor

How many heater mats in each slat and name them? 3 inboard, centre and outboard. 

Each slat heater mat has how many zones? 
2 zones, zone A and B

Slat temperature signal and voltage is controlled by which unit? 
Wing ice protection controller 

Solid state power controllers (SSPC) are used to heat which items and where does it gets power from? 
Pitot tube, total air temperature TAT vanes and angle of attack AOA vanes, 
The heater for these data sensors gets power from the P300 and P400 115v ac buses thru remote power distribution units (RPDU)

SSPC are used to power the Pitot probes, TAT probe and AOA sensors.

How many Wiper Electronic Control Units (WECU) and what are the power requirements? 2 each (WECU) 115VAC
How many positions on wiper switch? 4 positions- OFF, INT,LOW, and HIGH

Both left and right Ice Detection Vanes’s send information thru Air Data Reference Function ADRF to which unit? 
Remote Data Concentrator then to the Common Data Network 
