ATA 21 27 26 56

A switch/controller in the window reveal lets the passenger control the quantity of light that comes through the window

The APU stops automatically, and the fire bottle discharges 15 seconds later.

The WWFDS also supplies a signal to flight controls to set a small gap in spoilers 6 and 9. This occurs if a wheel well ambient temperature, measured by 2 sensor elements above 1 axle, is more than 140F (60C). The result is a cooling airflow through the wheel well.

SMCU monitors the cargo squibs integrity and provides discharge power for the cargo bottles and flow control valves.

Aircon synoptic page is shown in the MFD

The alternate ventilation system (AVS) lets external air go directly into the airplane when there is a loss of conditioned air inflow (LOCI) condition. 

The AVS on B787-9 uses both the FWD and AFT outflow valves. When the AVS operates, the FWD outflow valve move to 10 o'clock position and the AFT outflow valve to 1 o'clock position

Bulk Cargo Zone Temp Sensor is a dual element sensor and sends info to the CDN through 2 RDCs.

FWD E&E cooling exhaust overboard valve power  is +28v dc from remote power distribution unit (RPDU) 73.

The valve control units (VCU) control the OFVs in the automatic mode. 

The operating modes of the outflow valves are Auto and Manual. 3 motors – 2 Auto and 1 Manual

When power first goes to the PCU, the PCU software selects one PCU channel to be in control and the other channel to operate in a tracking mode. (The control and tracking channels change at each flight).

The cabin air compressor (CAC) deflector door protects the CAC inlet from FOD or nose gear water spray while the airplane is on ground.

The 2 elements of a loop must sense the over-temperature condition at the same time.

1. There is a zonal dryer in the forward and aft crown areas.  2. The moist air goes through the lower recirculation air system to the compact mixer.

The PECS uses primary and secondary heat exchangers in each loop to make the coolant cool: - Primary - ram air heat exchangers in the pack bays - Secondary - lavatory/galley ventilation system heat exchangers.

The Surface lock Switch in P5 locks control surfaces in PFCF modes Normal & Secondary flight controls and for HLF modes  Primary and Secondary for maintenance use only.

Three of the flight control electronics (FCE) cabinets have an FCM. FCE C2 does not have an FCM. During Normal Mode FCM controls surface commands based on inputs from crew

Shows surface positions, hydraulic system status & flight control modes 

Flight control major and minor rigging pages are accessed through the Central Maintenance Computing Function (CMCF) line Maintenance on ATA 27

The control wheel back drive actuator (BDA) moves the wheel when: - The autopilot gives a roll command (to match the flight control surface position). 

The control column backdrive actuator (BDA) moves the control column during autopilot operation. 
It is engaged during autopilot operation after takeoff and for climb, cruise, and descent operations. 
Movement of the BDA gives the flight crew an indication of the autopilot pitch commands sent to the primary flight control surfaces.   

The rudder pedal back drive actuator (BDA) moves the rudder pedals during auto land operation. 

When Auto pilot is engaged all the 3 flight controls are moved by the BDA and no cable backup.

The feel and centering unit is a spring-loaded cam and roller unit that:
- Gives resistance (feel) to control wheel movement
- Moves the wheel to the center position when the pilot lets go of the wheel

The empennage door actuation system (EDAS) decreases drag forces on the vertical and horizontal stabilizers.

The FCEs send position command data to an REU at each of the 4 elevator PCUs. (2 on each side L & R)

The EMCUs control the horizontal stabilizer trim actuator (HSTA).

Spoiler droop improves lift by control of the gap between the trailing edge of the spoilers and the upper surface of the flaps.
In addition to speedbrake and roll control, the lateral control surfaces may be drooped to improve aerodynamic performance.

If all the FCEs fails, the  RVDT in the captain cluster connects directly to a spoiler electronics motor control unit (EMCU) for direct operation of spoiler 4. 
The other RVDT in the first officer cluster connects directly to a spoiler EMCU for direct operation of spoiler 11.

RVDT IN Capt goes to spoiler 4.
RVDT in FO goes to spoiler 11.

The outboard slat skew system has a detection mechanism assembly (DMA) that contains a sensor, target, and spring assembly. 
A lanyard goes along the back of the outboard slats and connects to the DMA. 
Skew movement of the slats pulls on the DMA, and the DMA sensor gives a skew indication. 
Slat skew sensors at the inboard LE flap monitor skew and asymmetry conditions. 
These sensors connect to the FCEs. The FCEs stops slat operation for skew and asymmetry conditions in the high lift primary and secondary modes. 
Flight deck indications show for skew and asymmetry conditions in all high lift modes

